README.md, before:

# IMAProc
Digital Geoimage Processing use an image of the National Agriculture Imagery Program (NAIP) [[link]](https://naip-usdaonline.hub.arcgis.com/) with 7 classes based on Konrad Hafen [[link]](https://opensourceoptions.com/author/admin/).

## 01 - Intro 

The Machine Learning (ML) application of ***scikit-learn*** Random Forest Classifier [[link]](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier.html) was implemented by Robson Rogério Dutra Pereira (rrdpereira) [[link]](https://github.com/rrdpereira/), to perform the multiclass (7 classes in this case) semantic segmenataion.

## 02 - Dependences

A Miniconda [[link]](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/miniconda-install.html) Python enviroment was create with 3.10.11 Python version and with the following main packages:
* GDAL                    3.4.3 (offline installation on the ***gdal_exiftool_offline*** folder)
* tensorflow              2.10.1 (not used, but It's impotant to early install for the future applications)
* scikit-image            0.21.0
* scikit-learn            1.3.0
* scipy                   1.11.1
* opencv-python           4.8.0.74
* numpy                   1.25.1
* geopandas               0.10.2
* pandas                  1.5.3 
* matplotlib              3.7.2

## 03 - NAIP Image Sample

The NAIP image ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624.tif*** was generated by NAIP imagery program on 2016/06/24 (stored in the link [[link]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EijARm2qpfdboEdktNIFunobpYBWdLFd/view?usp=drive_link)), and the ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624.tif*** have 5834 x 7586 pixels, 1 m of the spatial resolution, and 4 bands/channels (R,G,B,NIR):

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/00_NAIP_original.PNG" />  
</p>

## 04 - Image Segmentation

The image segmentation can be done by using the quickshift and slic algorithm. The original NAIP was cropped to reduce the segmentation time process around to 10min approximately, and stored as ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624_CROP_shp.tif*** (cropped using the ***CropOriginalSHP.shp***) or ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624_CROP_gpkg.tif*** (cropped using the ***CropOriginalGPKG.gpkg***) in the folder ***NAIP***, with 3632 x 1457 pixels. You need to choose on of the cropped images, both work for classification:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/01_NAIP_original_with_polycrop.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/02_NAIP_cropregion.PNG" /> 
  <img height=200px src="./docs/03_NAIP_cropped.PNG" />  
</p>

After you choose the cropped image, now you can run the segmentation algorithm. The slic algorithm was configurated with number of segments for the segmentation equal to 25000 and compactness equal to 0.1. We can see the final segmentation in the following results:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/04_SegmentsFinal.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/04_SegmentsFinal_transparency.PNG" /> 
  <img height=200px src="./docs/05_SegmentsFinal_transparency.PNG" />  
</p>

## 05 - Ground Truth Shape file

Knowing what you want to classify, It's necessary to create a ground truth shape file, as we can see in the following figures:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/06_ground_truth_305.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/06b_ground_truth_305.PNG" />
</p>

I left a ground truth shape file example in the ***NAIP*** folder with 305 points of column ***label***. To create this shape, I used the QGIS [[link]](https://www.qgis.org/en/site/) software, but you can any other Geographic Information System (GIS) sofware.

## 06 - Train and Test Split Shape file

Based on the ground truth shape file and the percentage of train and test (***fracPerV***), one train shape file and another test shape file will be created (dataset split), like the following figures:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/07_train_214.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/08_test_91.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/09_train_test.PNG" />
</p>

## 07 - Random Forest Results

After the ground truth shape split, the training process used the ***train.shp*** and the validation used the ***test.shp***, as we can see the following classfication results:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/10_classified.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/10_classified_transparency.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/11_classified_transparency.PNG" />
</p>

## 08 - References

 * https://naip-usdaonline.hub.arcgis.com/

 * https://opensourceoptions.com/author/admin/

 * https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier.html

 * https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/miniconda-install.html

 * https://www.qgis.org/en/site/

Commit message:

add: train test shapes and classified tif

README.md, after:

# IMAProc
Digital Geoimage Processing use an image of the National Agriculture Imagery Program (NAIP) [[link]](https://naip-usdaonline.hub.arcgis.com/) with 7 classes based on Konrad Hafen [[link]](https://opensourceoptions.com/author/admin/).

## 01 - Intro 

The Machine Learning (ML) application of ***scikit-learn*** Random Forest Classifier [[link]](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier.html) was implemented by Robson Rogério Dutra Pereira (rrdpereira) [[link]](https://github.com/rrdpereira/), to perform the multiclass (7 classes in this case) semantic segmenataion.

## 02 - Dependences

A Miniconda [[link]](https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/miniconda-install.html) Python enviroment was create with 3.10.11 Python version and with the following main packages:
* GDAL                    3.4.3 (offline installation on the ***gdal_exiftool_offline*** folder)
* tensorflow              2.10.1 (not used, but It's impotant to early install for the future applications)
* scikit-image            0.21.0
* scikit-learn            1.3.0
* scipy                   1.11.1
* opencv-python           4.8.0.74
* numpy                   1.25.1
* geopandas               0.10.2
* pandas                  1.5.3 
* matplotlib              3.7.2

## 03 - NAIP Image Sample

The NAIP image ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624.tif*** was generated by NAIP imagery program on 2016/06/24 (stored in the link [[link]](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EijARm2qpfdboEdktNIFunobpYBWdLFd/view?usp=drive_link)), and the ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624.tif*** have 5834 x 7586 pixels, 1 m of the spatial resolution, and 4 bands/channels (R,G,B,NIR):

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/00_NAIP_original.PNG" />  
</p>

## 04 - Image Segmentation

The image segmentation can be done by using the quickshift and slic algorithm. The original NAIP was cropped to reduce the segmentation time process around to 10min approximately, and stored as ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624_CROP_shp.tif*** (cropped using the ***CropOriginalSHP.shp***) or ***m_4211161_se_12_1_20160624_CROP_gpkg.tif*** (cropped using the ***CropOriginalGPKG.gpkg***) in the folder ***NAIP***, with 3632 x 1457 pixels. You need to choose on of the cropped images, both work for classification:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/01_NAIP_original_with_polycrop.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/02_NAIP_cropregion.PNG" /> 
  <img height=200px src="./docs/03_NAIP_cropped.PNG" />  
</p>

After you choose the cropped image, now you can run the segmentation algorithm. The slic algorithm was configurated with number of segments for the segmentation equal to 25000 and compactness equal to 0.1. We can see the final segmentation in the following results:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/04_SegmentsFinal.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/04_SegmentsFinal_transparency.PNG" /> 
  <img height=200px src="./docs/05_SegmentsFinal_transparency.PNG" />  
</p>

## 05 - Ground Truth Shape file

Knowing what you want to classify, It's necessary to create a ground truth shape file, as we can see in the following figures:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/06_ground_truth_305.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/06b_ground_truth_305.PNG" />
</p>

I left a ground truth shape file example in the ***NAIP*** folder with 305 points of column ***label***. To create this shape, I used the QGIS [[link]](https://www.qgis.org/en/site/) software, but you can any other Geographic Information System (GIS) sofware.

## 06 - Train and Test Split Shape file

Based on the ground truth shape file and the percentage of train and test (***fracPerV***), one train shape file and another test shape file will be created (dataset split), like the following figures:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/07_train_214.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/08_test_91.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/09_train_test.PNG" />
</p>

## 07 - Random Forest Results

After the ground truth shape split, the training process used the ***train.shp*** and the validation used the ***test.shp***, as we can see the following classfication results:

<p align="center">
  <img height=200px src="./docs/10_classified.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/10_classified_transparency.PNG" />
  <img height=200px src="./docs/11_classified_transparency.PNG" />
</p>

And the following confusion matrix results:
``` sh
Random Forest Classification Classified.tif file is Done!
min: 0; max: 7; min: 6.727359035372302e-05;
[[12  0  0  0  0  0  1]
 [ 0 14  0  0  2  0  0]
 [ 0  0  5  2  0  0  0]
 [ 0  5  3 12  0  0  0]
 [ 0  0  0  0 10  0  0]
 [ 0  0  0  0  0 14  1]
 [ 0  0  1  0  1  0  8]]
[12 14  5 12 10 14  8]
[12 19  9 14 13 14 10]
[1.0 0.73684211 0.55555556 0.85714286 0.76923077 1.0 0.8]
```

## 08 - References

 * https://naip-usdaonline.hub.arcgis.com/

 * https://opensourceoptions.com/author/admin/

 * https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestClassifier.html

 * https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/miniconda-install.html

 * https://www.qgis.org/en/site/
